# binding-sites

Step 1. Perform a genome-wide search of the canonical dsx binding site, allowing a certain number (e.g., up to 2) mismatches. As to what the canonical dsx binding site is, there are actually 4 different published canonical sites, some of which have ambiguous sites (where N = any base, G/A = G or A, and nT = anything but T):

Erdman et al 1996
(G/A)NNAC(A/T)A(T/A)GTNN(C/T)

Yi and Zarkower 1999
(nT)(nG)(T/A)ACAATGT(A/T)(nC)C

Murphy et al 2007
(T/C)(G/A)(C/T)(A/T)AC(A/T)(T/A)(T/A)GT(A/T)(nC)

Luo and Baker 2011
GCAACAATGTTGC


So what we would need is a search of all these possible sites, also allowing for up to 2 mismatch. I'm not sure if you guys have a quick way of making a list of all the possible sequences that these could generate, but I would be willing to make that list if not. Some of these have weighted values, but we are not really concerned iwth that since they are all based on Drosophila, and we are not sure that we are looking spsecifically for the Drosophila site.

Step 2. Catalog all unique 13-mers found, and record how many times they were found in O. taurus. 

Step 3. Once they are ranked by frequency, sequentially test each of the  say - top 10 - 13-mers for over-representation in Onthophagus taurus. In one paper, they also used 100 position shuffled 13-mers as controls, to see how often a 13-mer with those base pairs would arise by chance in the genome.

Step 4. For those found to be over-represented, find distance and identity to closest gene models up and downstream. This will allow us to compare the list with known dsx targets.

Step 5. Repeat this process with Drosophila and Tribolium. Repeating with Drosophila will serve as a good control for the protocol - if the list we generate this way matches well with lists generated by Chip-Seq, we know we are on the right track. Repeating with Tribolium will give us more confidence that the site sequence is something important to dsx in beetles (that is, if the target list end up overlapping well. if they don't, that is a red flag).

We were wondering what you guys thought of this approach, in terms of feasibility and the time it would take to run. I think that providing a list of possible sequences (with up to 2 opportunities for mistmatch) to search in the genome might actually be more simple than finding similarity to a PWM, and in our case a more reasonable way to go since we don't know how similar the binding site in O.taurus is to the binding site in Drosophila.

This project is sadly now used as a trial for SonarCloud. But it's being used, that is good, right?
